CHROME
	goo.gle/chrome-ai-dev-preview-index
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program
The Context Index
	Author
	Kenji Baheux
	Contact
	See this section
	Last-updated
	Feb 25, 2026
	Intro
Thanks for participating in our Early Preview Program for built-in AI capabilities (article, talk at Google I/O 2024, talks at Google I/O 2025: web, Chrome Extensions).


📣
	Know of other folks who would love to join this program? Or perhaps you got access to this document from a friend? 


Sign up to get the latest updates directly in your inbox.
	

Context is king!
This document is an index of all key communication sent to participants in the early preview program. You should also have access to all the emails sent to the group via the Google Groups web interface.
Key documents and APIs
Publication date
	Link
	Feb 9, 2026
	WebMCP Early Preview
	Aug 11, 2025
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program - Proofreader API- Update #8
	May 20, 2025
	🆕Google I/O 2025 announcements:
* Prompt API with multimodal capabilities
* Developer preview of Firebase AI Logic
	Apr 1, 2025
	📣 PSA: new API entry points and key changes
* Rather than self.ai.*, you'll now find the APIs directly on self.*
* Instantiation is done via a static create() method
   * Example: await LanguageModel.create();
* There's now a static availability() method
   * Example: await Summarizer.availability();
	

Oct 2, 2024
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program - The Translation API - Update #6
* Launched! Prefer the public documentation for the latest.
	Aug 27, 2024
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program - The Writer and Rewriter APIs - Update #5
* Writer API: Prefer the Origin Trial documentation for the latest.
* Rewriter API: Prefer the Origin Trial documentation for the latest.
	Aug 8, 2024
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program - The Summarization API - Update #3
* Launched! Prefer the public documentation for the latest.


Built-in AI Early Preview Program - The Language Detection API - Update #4
* Launched! Prefer the public documentation for the latest.
	Jul 10, 2024
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program - Feedback and what's next- Update #2
	May 30, 2024
	Built-in AI Early Preview Program - Welcome and heads-up about the Prompt API - Update #1
* Prefer the Origin Trial documentation for the latest.
	May 14, 2024
	Built-in AI in Chrome
	Events, surveys and misc
Publication date
	Link
	Sep 17, 2025
	🗣️ Survey: your hands-on feedback on Writer, Rewriter, and Prompt APIs..
	Apr 18, 2025
	🗣️ Surveys: client-side AI challenges (e.g. redundant AI model downloads)
* Jun 9, 2025: closed, thanks for your feedback!
* General Client-Side AI User: Pains & Opportunities. If you've thought about or worked with any client-side AI and have thoughts on challenges, practices, or have ideas for web platform's help including if / how to share AI models across sites.
* For the IT / Enterprise / Edu Crowd: Managed Devices Magic. If you work with or support managed device fleets where AI deployment might be relevant.
* For the Domain Jugglers: Multi-Site Mastery. If you're at a company managing multiple websites and thinking about consistent AI features and avoiding duplicate AI models across your properties.
* For the Libraries / Embed Experts: Integrations Insights. If you build widgets, libraries, or components that get integrated or embedded on other sites, and wish that you could re-use the same AI model instead of downloading one copy for each integration.
	Feb 13, 2025
	🗣️ Survey: your hands-on feedback on the built-in AI APIs.
	Dec 6, 2024
	🗣️ Survey: your thoughts and needs regarding multimodal AI.
* May 15, 2025: closed, stay tuned for a future update on multimodal.
	Oct 1, 2024
	🏆Join the Google Chrome Built-in AI Challenge, and win prizes!
* Dec 6, 2024: Sign-up and submission closed, stay tuned for a future edition.
	Jul 10, 2024
	Update #2 survey:  feedback on the program, APIs and use cases.
	Contact
Feedback form for quality or technical issues
If you experience quality or technical issues, consider sharing details. Your reports will help us refine and improve our models, APIs, and components in the AI runtime layer, to ensure safety and responsible use.
* Handy shortlink: goo.gle/chrome-ai-dev-preview-feedback-quality
Feedback about Chrome’s behavior / implementation of the API
If you want to report bugs or other  issues related to Chrome’s behavior / implementation of the API, provide as many details as possible (e.g. repro steps) in a public chromium bug report.
Other feedback
For other questions or issues, reach out directly by sending an email to the mailing list owners (chrome-ai-dev-preview+owners@chromium.org). We’ll do our best to be as responsive as possible or update existing documents when more appropriate.
Community discussions
Consider joining the following community for discussions on built-in AI or web AI in general:
* Chrome Built-in AI Early Preview Program Discussions
* Google Developer Community discord server